Now that we have configured our MAVEN project to use Jica plugin to export code coverage, let's see
how it works.
To execute the Job Caucus Report goal, I'll need to execute Maven's test phase and it is done with
the following MAVEN command.
I'll bring the internal window and then we'll run maven test.
Or if I need to clean previous build and run queen test, then I will use Maven clean space test and
hit enter maven clean will first remove the target directory with all its previously compiled classes
and generated reports.
And the test option here will tell me when to execute test phase.
And during the test phase who will have our code compiled and our unit tests will be executed.
Now the built in successful, we have no errors and we should have a code coverage report expected as
well.
So let's open it.
To find code coverage support, I will need to go to a finder window, go to my project user service,
go to a target directory, and then I will have folder that is called site.
And inside of the site folder will have a new folder that is called CheckBox and I can click on index.html
to open it.
So let's double click on it and here's our test report with code coverage.
This report starts with a list of packages and for each package we see called coverage information.
The first column here is with missed instructions.
The covered instructions are in green and the instructions that are not covered with unitards are incorrect.
And the little C AP abbreviation stands for coverage.
The next column here displays code coverage information about missed branches.
Missed branches are the if conditions in your code and switch statements, for example.
The next column is called Coverage Information about Psychosomatic Complexity and the psychometric complexities
of software, a metric that is used to indicate the complexity of your code.
If your source code contains no control flow statements, then its psychosomatic complexity will be
just one.
But if your method contains at least one if condition for example, then the psychometric complexity
will already be equal to two, because there are two possible ways the execution can go.
So the more statements or switch statements you have in your code, the higher is the value of, say,
climatic complexity.
Then we have columns that display code coverage, information for all lines of code, and the package
for all methods in the package and all classes in the package.
If I click on the package name, for example, if I click on service package, then I will see code
coverage information for all classes in this connected package.
I can then dive deeper and click on the class me for example, user service implementation and I can
go even deeper and see source code of a class.
Now in the source code of the class, you might see diamonds of different colors.
For example, here I have yellow diamond and I don't have other diamonds, but there are different colors.
You might see a red diamond.
Yellow diamond and green diamond.
The red diamond will indicate that the code in the branch was not covered with a unit test.
I don't have those branches.
The yellow diamond will indicate that the code was only partially covered with unit tests.
For example, some conditions were not tested and the green diamond will indicate that the highlighted
code in the selected branch was executed with a unit test.
All right, so it all worked for us.
And you now know how to generate and how to exploit code coverage reported in your MAVEN based project.